# Unsupervised Learning

IN PROGRESS: The following project will take an unsupervised learning approach using the Online Retail dataset. This dataset was taken from the UC Irvine Machine Learning Reposity. It can be accessed [here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/352/online+retail). I chose this dataset, firstly, because it lacks a clear target variable (i.e. purchase yes/no), but also because it includes some behavioral variables (i.e. product type, quantity of product, cost, time of purchase). The data was analyzed by Chen, Sain, and Guo (2012) using SAS, with some differences in the current dataset and theirs. Most notably, their dataset included a postal code column, and they made little reference to the N/A values in the customer ID column. An analysis of these values revealed a range of items, including speciality items, administrative fees, luxury items. They were exluded from the analysis. 

While this started as an interest in unsupervised learning. I had read the work by Chen, Sain, and Guo (2012), and was interested in following their approach. They had aggregated variables within the dataset to structure unsupervised learning (k-means) within dimensions of the frequency and monetary model (RFM). This would differ if I attempted to run an unsupervised clustering model without this approach, and it also led me to wonder what the cost/ benefit is to the aggregate approach. Looking at those specific dimensions of consumer behavior assumes some causal presumptions relevant to predicition. That being said, it exlcudes an analysis into the product description, how the product sells across companies, seasonal factors, product labeling, and a range of other factors. I do think these factors could also play a role in consumer behavior, but as information on these products is limited to description only, I woul have to work with what is available within the dataset.

So, this project is a python attempt at replication the Chen, Sain, and Guo (2012), while including some python specific tools for clustering (i.e. i.e. Elbow Cruve method - Silhoutte Algorithm). While it could be that sorting differences (or the availability/ exclusion of the postal code column) leads to differences, so far the output has been pretty close. I sort the data into freqeuncy, recency, and monetary aggregated by customer, rather than postal code. Further, I attempt to extend the inlcusion of the RFMT (T for time) model. I also aim to explore some other dimensions of the data, in relation to clustering techniques, really just to learn and experiment with different features of the data.




### References
Chen, D., Sain, S. L., & Guo, K. (2012). Data mining for the online retail industry: A case study of RFM model-based customer segmentation using data mining. Journal of Database Marketing & Customer Strategy Management, 19, 197-208.
